# Opportunity-Message-Sentiment-Analysis
This dashboard assesses incoming emails on active sales opportunities to give them a score using NLTK sentiment analysis

My sales manager is very aware of what's going on with every sales opportunity. He often checks messages that are logged in Salesforce to see what the latest news on an opportunity is. Salesforce isn't the most user friendly for digging through those emails, so I thought it would be useful for him to have a single place to view a summary of messages coming in on active opportunities. I was also keen to apply some new NLP skills I've learned, and I thought this use case was the perfect one to apply it to.

First, I created a chart with active opportunities sorted with the soonest close date first. I included a summary of the number of activities logged on the opportunity to give an idea of the relative activity on the opp recently (might indicate it's a stale opp someone forget to move out the close date on), and the date of the most recent message on the opp.

Second, I created a chart to act as an incoming message stream of new emails coming in on active opportunities. Management wants to know as soon as possible when potentially negative emails come in to an opportunity. They want to be able to follow up with rep responsible for the opportunity (and possibly with the prospect as well), to for make a plan and formualte a response/next step as quickly as possible. To help them get the jump on emails needing their attention, I also used NLTK to assess the sentiment of the email.  I had to clean up the messages a bit since they sometimes included long email threads that diluted the sentiment score, but once I captured that chunk, it was amazing to see how good the built-in sentiment analysis was at judging the sentiment of incoming emails. Most were generally positive...throughout most of the deal people are pretty friendly and enthusiastic (at least in our primary market). However, in late stage emails, or sometimes midway through proofs-of-concepts, negative emails tend to stand out pretty clearly ("We have to delay", "There's no way we can accept this", etc.). So this chart gives management the ability to quickly glance at all the recent emails on active opportunities to identify which ones need their attention. This is especially relevant at end of month when there is a ton going on and we're trying to bring in every deal possible.

I worked on this daashboard in collaboration with my manager, and he used it to track incoming opportunity messages in the very scenarios I described!
